[Music]
This is business breakdowns.
Business breakdowns is a series of
conversations with investors and
operators diving deep into a single
business. For each business, we explore
its history, its business model, its
competitive advantages, and what makes
it tick.
We believe every business has lessons
and secrets that investors and operators
can learn from and we are here to bring
them to you. To find more episodes of
breakdowns, check out join colossus.com.
All opinions expressed by hosts and
podcast guests are solely their own
opinions. Hosts, podcast guests, their
employers or affiliates may maintain
positions in the securities discussed in
this podcast. This podcast is
forformational purposes only and should
not be relied upon as a basis for
investment decisions.
I'm Zach Fuss and today we're breaking
down NextStar Media Group. Nextar is a
business that may not carry household
recognition but controls more local
television stations than any other
company in the US. My guest today is
Simeon McMillan, a founder of media
focused research firm Acred Interest.
Simeon brings a unique perspective to
the sector. He's held roles as a banker
and executive within prominent
television, cable, and radio businesses
including Univision networks and media
co. In this discussion, we will examine
the foundational structure of the
broadcast television industry, tracing
its evolution from the pre-in hub and
spoke model of the major networks NBC,
CBS, ABC, and Fox to its current state.
Sim will break down the revenue streams
that sustain this ecosystem and how
subscriber fees from multi-channel video
programming distributors MVPds like
YouTube TV and Comcast cable are
distributed among the networks and their
affiliates. And then we'll address the
impact of cord cutting on subscribers
and how those viewership metrics impact
pricing power within the television
ecosystem. This is an industry with
substantial consolidation which has
reshaped itself over the past decade and
ultimately culminated in the emergence
of businesses like Nextstar as the
pre-minent station group of outside of
the big four. We'll scrutinize their
financial profile including their
revenue competition and capital
allocation and then cover their
strategic investments and content such
as their acquisition of the CW broadcast
network and their development of
NewsNation. We hope that you enjoy this
breakdown of the NextStar Media Group.
>> All right, Sim, appreciate you offering
to do this. I know it's an area that is
near and dear to you, broadcasters. I
think the way we'll set this up is we'll
do a broad discussion about the industry
itself, and then we'll go into the
specifics of some of the larger players,
NextStar in particular. I thought an
interesting place to start would be
given your background just taking us
through how you got interested in the
space, your experience as someone that
was been on both sides of the table as
someone that participated as an operator
and also as an investor and then we'll
dive into the way you're seeing the
landscape today and introduce our
audience into broadcasters generally.
>> Thank you for that introduction, Zach.
My name is Simeon McMillan and I'm the
host, author, and founder of the Acred
Interest Substack. We are a podcast, a
newsletter, and I'm on Twitter under
Acred Interest. My passion is for media
investing primarily because I spent time
both as a junior investment banker, a
research analyst. I've done a lot of
different jobs in the finance industry.
I've worked on many media transactions
over the years. But then for the second
part of my career for the last 10 years,
I've worked as an operator. I've worked
as a executive in the financial FPNA
department. I've done strategic revenue
work with ad sales departments and I've
worked inside of several television
broadcast and cable networks as well as
radio companies. I spent some time at
Univision networks. I worked across a
variety of their properties. I also was
part of a new management team that
worked at Media Co. It was a spin-off
from MS Corporation and the primary
assets were Hot 97 WBLS. There at Media
Co. I had experience working with the
radio side ad sales primarily supporting
the CFO, the COO and the entire seuite
and I also had experience working with
the company had a billboard division at
a point before they sold it. So I am
here because I love talking about media.
I love dissecting companies and doing
business breakdowns is fun for me
because on one hand I know how the
research community can talk about a
company. But having been in the
boardroom, having been inside the
offices of senior executives, I know how
theory actually comes into practice for
these assets. Given the vernacular in
these industries is somewhat
complicated. You've got the MVPds,
you've got OTT, broadcasters, retrans,
affiliate. I can go on forever. For
whatever reason, pay TV as an ecosystem
loves to get into acronyms and
resegmentation and different ways to
describe what it is that the industry is
at a basic level. Can you just take us
through how the industry is structured
and how that has evolved over time? When
I was in business school at Wharton, we
called the acronyms TLAs, threeletter
acronyms. I'll try to use as much
general vocabulary as I can, but here is
how I think you should think about the
broadcast television industry. The
original setup of the broadcast
affiliate TV model is a bit of a
throwback from a time in the pre-
internet days. It was set up back when
the limit with how far you can send a
video signal was correlated to your
local market because the spectrum, the
signal coming from the broadcast station
could only go but so far. In the
beginning of the industry, you had
pretty much the big four TV networks,
NBC, CBS, ABC, and later on Fox, but we
consider them part of the big four. And
they operated on a bit of a hub and
spoke model. So each of the networks
have studios either independent or they
can buy shows and content from
thirdparty studios. Each of the network
gets shows from their studios and they
put them on the air for you to watch and
then they make money by selling ad time
inside those shows as well as collecting
subscription fees or affiliate fees from
the cable providers that host their
channels. You want to look at the
structure of the broadcast network. Due
to regulation set up many years ago, the
FCC set up a cap that any one broadcast
entity could not control a broadcast
signal that touches more than 39% of the
US population. It's known as the 39%
rule. It was intended to keep any one
network or station from controlling what
listeners were hearing on the news or
their programming all over the country.
What ended up happening is that all of
the big four networks decided that if
they could only own the stations that
covered 39% of the population, it makes
sense that they want to own the stations
in the biggest markets. So that's
exactly what happened. Most of the
broadcast television stations in the top
10 markets are what's known as O and
O's, owned and operated stations that
are still owned by ABC, CBS, NBC, etc.
to reach the rest of the country that
they contractually are not able to
reach. They then work with a network of
local broadcast affiliate stations which
are owned by third parties but then
strike programming agreements to be
affiliated with one of the big four
networks. They are basically a partner
network in exchange for a share of the
ad revenue. The local affiliate then is
able to get programming from the big
four network that would be too expensive
for them to produce on their own.
They're also able to get support for
news because each of the big four
networks have a national news desk that
helps out with the local news and
they're also able to get sports and
other big ticket programming items that
they could not afford to pay for
themselves. So over the years as you
have evolution in video, you've had the
introduction of the cable television
industry, you've had the introduction of
streaming television. During this entire
process, the broadcast affiliate model
has pretty much stayed intact. But I
think we're about to start seeing cracks
in the model because where we are today,
the local independent affiliates have
come out of about a 15-year period of
consolidation.
We're going to get into what that means
going forward, but they used to be
hundreds of local market television
stations and they've mostly been
consolidated to about five major owners.
So, where we sit today with the new
administration currently in Washington,
operators in the television space are
trying to get the FCC to lower the
current 39% cap to allow for the big
players that are still there to
consolidate the market even more. All
the while, we have viewers who were
cutting the cord that's still happening
and they're finding ways to get video
and other entertainment products outside
the cable bundle. I love broadcast
television because it brings together
four or five different industries and
you can see the market forces work in
tandem as the industry evolves. So if we
think about the pie that's being divided
up here, I want to make sure that we
drive home how paying subscribers
translate into revenue for each of these
different parts of the ecosystem. As an
example, as a consumer, I may be a
customer of YouTube TV. I may be a
customer of Comcast cable. I pay them
per month, call it anywhere from $75 to
$200. How does that revenue then work
its way downstream to the networks
themselves, ABC, CBS, NBC, and then the
affiliates? How does everyone get paid?
I think a helpful way to describe how
everyone gets paid is I'm going to take
a moment and talk about some of the
revenue streams for Nexttar, but this is
pretty representative of the larger
broadcast TV companies. A good way to
think about this is to describe it as
you just did, Zach, by centering the
perspective from the customer paying
money to their cable provider. Cable
providers, video providers, satellite,
Hulu TV, wherever you get your video,
any service that bundles a package of
channels is known as a MVPD.
That stands for multi-channel video
provider. You have an offshoot of that,
a virtual MVPD, which are internet first
skinny bundles. We used to call them 10
years ago. Hulu Live TV, Fubo, or Sling.
You, the consumer, get a bill, let's
say, for $120 for this month from your
video provider. What the cable company
does is the cable company then has a
series of agreements with all the
different networks and all the different
broadcast stations. All the different
publishers that they get video content
from get a cut of your bill. For a long
time, the biggest recipient of
distribution fees directly from the
cable companies were the cable channels.
For years, you had about a 100 million
US households that were getting a
package of 50, 70, or 100 channels. And
based on the bargaining power of the
owners of each individual channel, they
would then charge Comcast a rate. They
have a very complicated rate card where
the networks would charge Comcast a
certain dollar amount per subscriber per
month to be paid for carrying that
station. What ends up happening over
time is that many networks thought it
was unfair that when they added up all
the payments for all the different TV
networks, the majority of the video
payments were going to the cable
channels. This angered May and the
industry because over many years the
broadcast TV networks again we're
talking mostly the big fours the NBC's
CBS Foxes and ABCs of the world were
still the majority of the actual viewing
habits of the consumers. The split of
the cable revenue back to the networks
was not perfectly correlated with the
viewing. So, as a result, something that
actually Nextar Media was a pioneer in
pushing for back in 2005 was that
NextStar was the first one to go to the
cable companies and say, "Hey, we're
broadcast. We're a local market station,
but our content has value. We have
sports, primarily the NFL, their their
biggest draw. We have local news and
many other shows that people want to
see." Over time, the broadcasters
started getting affiliate fees. They're
called retrans fees in the television
industry. They were getting monthly
payments for a certain dollar amount for
the number of subscribers that they had
in their Comcast market or whoever was
the provider. Once the big four networks
saw that the local market stations were
starting to get compensated monthly
subscriber fees for the content that the
broadcast networks were renting out to
them. The broadcast network said, "Hey,
the local market stations are just
reairing content that is largely content
that they're purchasing from us." the
local market stations, your local market
broadcast station will have originally
produced news content and originally
produced morning shows and other content
like that. But the prime time shows that
drive majority of the viewership come
from the parent network that they have
an affiliate agreement to. So what ended
up happening over time is we sit here
today where through the introduction of
retransmission fees through the fact
that next and other broadcasters pushed
the cable industry to be paid like the
cable companies. I would argue that the
broadcast television industry is now a
subset of the cable companies after
about a decade of tremendous growth in
subscription fees. You have the
broadcast networks who now have upwards
of 50% of their revenue coming from
video subscribers from the cable
channels. Bring it all together. If you
go through your video bill, I would
probably imagine that the ABCs, the
CBS's, the NBC's of the world are
probably getting where anywhere between
three to$4 a sub per month out of your
bill. to demonstrate to the customers
how expensive the retrans fees had
become for the cable companies to pay
the broadcasters. If you go to your bill
for a cable company today, you'll
probably see the broadcast fee broken
out as a separate line item because they
want to show everyone just how expensive
that is. So, that's a good sense of how
the money is split out. The math is the
same for the digital skinny bundles
except because the cable companies have
a most favored nations clause with the
networks. The cable companies have
agreements that basically whenever they
strike a new 3 to 5year deal with a
network. The network must give the cable
company the lowest rate in the market.
Whatever rate ABC, for example, is
charging Comcast per subscriber per
month, that rate is actually higher on
YouTube TV, it's higher on Sling, it's
higher on these other streamers. That
difference in pricing has been another
reason why the broadcast model has
survived as long as it has. as you lay
out those dynamics, clearly there's been
this friction amongst the negotiating
leverage within the players in the
ecosystem and my guess is a lot of that
is what drove this wave of consolidation
over the last decade or so and I think
that'll be a nice segue into NextStar
and what the business is and what it
represents as the largest player in the
space. Take us through some of the
drivers of that consolidation and then
introduce us to NextStar and the
business itself. As I said in the
beginning of this episode, broadcast and
cable had existed for decades before
streaming came into the picture. And
there was long attention for viewer
ratings, for viewer minutes between
broadcast and cable. for about 20 30
years. Ever since cable was introduced
in the 70s and became ubiquitous in the
80s, more and more TV viewership was
going from the broadcast stations to the
cable stations. What ends up happening
is that as the broadcast ratings were
falling for decades, it was a very slow
managed decline, a very slow trickle as
companies kept adding more and more
cable stations to the bundle. The
broadcast ratings were falling for 20,
30 years, but broadcast ratings were
still the largest piece of the pie. They
still had the sports. They still had all
of the marquee shows, the Seinfelds, all
of the water cooler shows that people
tuned in to see. The tension for the
distribution of the affiliate fees was
what drove the first wave of
consolidation
in the 2010s. In the 2010s, you had
hundreds of M&A transactions where you
had these smaller market local market
broadcast TV stations that finally
wanted to get the bargaining leverage to
get paid like cable channels. So, you
had these third party broadcasters who
were bulking up. They were also bulking
up to compete and to fight for a share
of the pie from the actual big four
networks that they were partners with.
Because I said before, there was a
tension between the parent network, the
ABC, and the third party ABC station.
Because the ABC station believes, hey,
look, local station, the reason why
you're getting paid that monthly fee is
because of the high value content that
we provide you. There was a new dynamic
where the big four networks introduced
what's known as reverse retrans, where
the big four networks were asking for a
give back. They were trying to pull back
the newly earned subscriber fees that
the local market stations had just won
from the cable companies by combining
the local market stations. The theory
was that they would now have to scale to
better compete versus the cable
companies, the video providers, but also
to push back on the big four networks
themselves, who remember the big four
networks were being constrained by
regulations. they can't grow anymore as
the smaller market stations would scale
up together. In theory, they'd be able
to push back. When Nextstar came in,
NextStar was founded in 1996. They went
public in the early 2000s and out the
gate they were doing acquisitions. The
company is still led by its founder,
chairman, and CEO, Perry Suk. Perry has
been with the company the entire time
and he's a legend in the industry for
coming up with the whole concept of
reverse retrans. During the 2010s
through a series of mergers and
acquisitions, NextStar Media went from
being one of the smaller local market
stations groups. They were primarily in
second and third tier markets to a point
where they are the number one station
group outside the big four by far in the
country. They have about 200 local
market stations. They are in about 116
US markets. Their signal reaches about
68% of the population, which technically
is more than the 39% cap. And I'll
explain why in a second. So now is the
largest broadcast station outside the
big four because they got supercharged
in their growth in the last five or six
years through two major acquisitions
that I just want to call out. First, in
2017, NextStar merged with Media General
for about 4.3 billion in cash and stock.
And this was, I want to say, their first
big acquisition that really pushed them
to the forefront of the industry in
terms of size. The media general
acquisition pushed NextStar into, let's
say, the top four or five local market
station groups. Their biggest
acquisition to date and the last one
they've done of consequence came in 2019
when Nextstar merged with Tribune
Broadcasting, another one of the bigger
local market stations groups. The reason
why NextStar can reach about 68% of the
US population is because one of the
nuances of the regulatory cap from the
FCC is that the station groups built
into the regulations lots of
technicalities that help them work
around the 39% cap. I won't get into all
the jargon because as we said we have
enough acronyms. But the local market
stations basically have a form of
sidecar agreements. They're called local
market agreements, LMAs. They have many
different names, but the station groups
basically have these armlengths
agreements where they can partner with
television stations that they do not
technically own and agree to manage the
station on behalf of the other owner. By
managing on behalf of the other owner,
they can then provide them with
editorial content. They can manage their
news. They can run it almost as if they
own the station themselves.
Broadcast has been using this loophole
for decades. And Nextar has been the
most aggressive aggregator to date and
that's why they sit at about 68% of the
US population which is far and ahead the
second biggest one which I would say is
probably Tegna. They probably reach
about 39% of the US population. Next
really is a product of M&A and part of
the reason why I think they're at a
critical juncture right now is that they
have one more M&A cycle in this industry
probably that they want to have another
buy at the apple but all the organic
growth drivers for the underlying
business have either tapped out, stalled
out or are currently in decline. Next
our media is a rollup machine, but
sometimes the rollup can run out of
runway. So to drive some of those points
home from a quantitative perspective,
maybe just lay out the financial profile
of NextStar size, scale, margin, revenue
composition, and capital allocation. So
to give you a sense of scale, I'll
rattle off some highlevel numbers here.
Next has a market cap a little over
about 5.2 billion today. In terms of
total enterprise value, we're looking at
almost 12 billion. The company is highly
levered as most broadcast stations are.
Their leveraged net debt to IBDA is
usually anywhere between three and a
half to four times leverage. In terms of
trailing revenue, keep in mind broadcast
experiences bumps in evennumbered
political years and larger bumps in
presidential years. 2024 is a little bit
higher in 2025, but to give you a sense
of scale, Nexar did about 5.5 billion of
revenue in 2024,
about 2 billion in adjusted Ebida. So
we're looking at a EBA margin of about
37%. Broadcast networks have very low
maintenance capex. When they're not
doing acquisitions, it costs almost
nothing to keep the stations running.
Broadcast converts about 50 to 60% of
the Ebida into free cash flow. So off of
about 2 billion in just Ibida, about 1
billion, a little over 1.1 1.2 billion
is going to drop to free cash flow. In
terms of the revenue composition, I said
in the beginning that after a decade of
demanding local broadcast stations get
paid like cable networks, broadcast
stations finally got their wish. In
terms of the revenue mix, about 55% of
the revenue is distribution fees. These
are retrans fees from cable companies
and digital video providers. You then
have advertising. And this is how I want
you to think about advertising.
Advertising is about 45% of total
revenue. For context, advertising used
to be about 75% of revenue about 10
years ago. It's part of the mix has
shrank as distribution revenue has grown
more consistently and more quickly.
Let's call it half the business's
advertising. That is about 2/3 or 70%
local advertising where they have a
local sales force to that specific
market that actually goes out and talks
to small and medium businesses. Car
dealerships are probably the most
prominent examples, but tons of local
mom and pops will advertise on local TV.
And then the other 25 to 30% of the
business is national business. What
national is is that if an advertiser
wants to do a national ad buy, the way
they do that is they combine a number of
local markets together to sort of build
a patchwork that if you add up the
coverage, it equals to national. So the
local market stations like Nextstar will
use third-party companies, third-party
services to outsource the selling of the
national, but it's still a part of the
business, but it's not growing that
quickly. Built in to the advertising
mix, built into the advertising half,
you have some digital in there, but I
just want to be very careful because
digital and broadcast is not like Google
or Facebook. Digital and broadcast
really means display ads, websites that
are owned by the different local market
stations and all the stations will have
their own weather apps or things like
that. Digital is about 10% of revenue
altogether. In terms of expenses, the
direct costs, these are programming
fees. That's the cost of running the
evening news, the reporters, the
writers, the engineers, the cost of
running the station. But then you have
programming fees paid to the big four
networks for affiliation. You have a fee
paid to NBC or ABC for the content that
they give you. And you also have reverse
retrans fee which about 50% of that
monthly subscriber fee that the station
is getting from the cable company gets
given back to ABC or CBS. This is
trending in the wrong direction is
actually pushing to upwards of 60%. But
we'll get more to that in a second. The
core advertising portion you pay about a
15% agency fee because a lot of this
business comes through media agencies,
ad agencies. So you pay a 15% fee to the
agencies and then in terms of the
commissions to the local market
salespeople, those can vary, but those
can be anywhere between 5 to 15% of
gross revenue. That gets us to a direct
cost, a cost of goods sold, let's call
it, about 40% of revenue. SGNA,
all the different bodies that it takes
to run the station, that adds another 20
to 24% of revenue because the local
markets, you need people on the ground
to do these things. A lot of these
functions can't be centralized. Bring it
all together, you have an EBIT margin in
the mid to high 20s in some years. And
then in terms of IBIDA margins, we're
talking anywhere between low to high
30s. Ebida margins anywhere between 32%
to 38% is the margin profile you can
expect from a business like this. Just
to try to provide a little bit more
color on the assets that they own.
Obviously, when you're talking about
regional broadcasters, people think
about local news and television, local
advertising, and then the retrans that
you mentioned. I know that they're
working on producing their own content
that may be of higher value. What are
some of the assets that they're
investing most heavily in?
>> Separate from the local market stations,
here are some of the avenues for organic
growth that NextStar is trying to
improve. First off, NextStar acquired
from Warner Brothers Discovery
approximately 70% interest in the CW
broadcast network. I won't go through
the whole history, but for any of those
who are familiar with broadcast stations
such as the WB and UPN, the CW was a
fifth English language broadcast
station. They're a distant lagger behind
the big four and they have less
viewership than even Univision and
Telmundo. But for English purposes, the
CW is the fifth major broadcast station.
They're all over the country. When Nexar
got this asset from Warner Brothers,
they basically got it for free because
it was underperforming so much. The CW
was formed by the merger, as I said, of
WB and UPN in 2005, 2006, I believe. And
the network was unprofitable pretty much
during its entire existence. WB as well
as the consortiums of other companies
that had a minority stake in this
network. They sold it to NextStar for
basically nothing. Nexttar just assumed
about hund00 million in debt. What
Nextar saw with the CW is Nextstar had
this vision. Nextar is currently the
largest owner of CW stations around the
country and NextStar has been trying to
change the programming strategy of the
CW to make it profitable for the first
time. The CW was most popular in the
2010s off of a slate of teen dramas and
superhero shows. Those were very
expensive to produce and did not attract
enough older viewers who are sticking
around to watch broadcast television.
So, the network always underperformed.
Next is now doing more unscripted
programming on the CW, which is cheaper
to produce. They're also trying to get
into some sports programming. They have
some NASCAR races. They also have some
shoulder programming for sports.
shoulder programming are things like
sports talk shows where they talk about
the game and so clips but not
necessarily the game itself. The CW is
airing more college football and they
also were airing some golf with the Live
Golf Company, but overall the CW's
ratings are still very poor and the
turnaround is still in the very very
early stages. And with the cable bundle
shrinking, it remains to be seen how
much of a turnaround can even be done
this late in the game. On the cable
side, NextStar has a news network called
NewsNation. So, NewsNation was a rebrand
from a general entertainment cable
network called WGN America that was
formerly owned by Tribune, whom Next
bought. WGN America was operated like a
wannabe TBS, like a wannabe TNT. They
wanted to be a super station with
entertainment programming, dramas, as
well as sports. They have a lot of
rights to Cubs games, but the plan
didn't work. And so when Nextstar
acquired Tribune, they flip the format
to NewsNation and NewsNation tries to
brand itself as more of a neutral
political voice, sort of along the lines
of a Newsmax, where they're trying to
carve a niche for people who want to get
cable news outside of Fox News, CNN or
MSNBC. NewsNation is also a very, very,
very small channel. and NewsNation and
the CW do not have earnings that are
material to NextStar quite yet. Next
also has a whole list that I'm not going
to go through of these small Digynetss.
Digetss are these broadcast networks
that are operated on the sub channel of
some of the HD signals. These are very
small networks again that have
viewership that is tiny. But the hope
was with the cable bundle breaking, with
more people watching television over the
air, the hope 10 years ago was that
these Digynets could build an audience,
but that hasn't panned out as well. And
lastly, Nexar owns some digital assets.
They own The Hill, which is a smaller
version of Politico, which is a
political news website. The Hill also is
not a meaningful contributor to
earnings. Nextar has one asset that they
brought over from the Tribune merger
that is noncore but keeps paying them a
nice little dividend and that is they
own 31% of the food network which is
really random but because Nex doesn't
have to put any money into the food
network they're happy to keep receiving
that distribution but that's not
something they can grow organically.
This is still very much a broadcast
company whose fate is tied to the cable
bundle. All these attempts to break
outside of the cable bundle have not
worked to date.
>> So it's not controversial to suggest
that the cable bundle and pay TV as it
exists is shrinking. Meaning there are
less subs paying for linear cable
effectively every sequential quarter for
the last several years. What does that
mean for the composition and makeup of
this business as it tries to drive
organic growth? I want to share with the
listeners some numbers on the extent to
which cord cutting has accelerated I
think more than maybe some might have
realized particularly over co let's just
look over the last 10 years 10 years ago
let's call it 2014
the pay TV industry had an addressable
market of about 100 million households
if you were a basic cable channel or any
channel that was what was considered
considered back then fully distributed.
That meant that you were in 100 million
households. Over the next 10 years, the
total pay TV ecosystem number of
households has shrunk by about 30%. You
went from about 100 million pay TV
households to about 60 and a half 70
million today. In terms of traditional
cable, so excluding the new skinny
bundles, the decline has been even
worse. decline has been even more than
50%. We have about 50 million households
today which are paying for what you
would consider to be traditional cable
bundle. So in just one decade, half of
the addressable subscriber base is gone.
What that means for this industry is
that broadcasters are no longer able to
make up for the loss in subscribers
by charging or demanding higher
subscriber fees from the cable
providers. Before in the slow pay TV
decline, if you lost the sub, you were
able to raise your subscriber fees
enough to recoup the loss. With the
industry smaller, that is no longer the
case. At the same time, the declines in
the viewership have been even more
extreme than declines in the subscriber
base. Something I want to share with the
listeners, and I've talked about this
extensively, I'm still talking about it
on my Substack. Acred Interest is my
newsletter on Substack. Netflix, but
actually YouTube has been the number one
disruptor over the last 5 years in
pulling viewers out of the entire pay TV
bundle. Neielson has a monthly report
where they show what percentage of TV
viewing of the big screen TV, this is
not mobile, this is traditional TV. what
percentage is attributed to each of the
major viewing services? And for the
fifth month in a row, YouTube was at a
new all-time high in video share.
YouTube in April 2025 accounted for
about 12% of TV viewing on big screen
TVs in this country. That is not
including YouTube TV, which is more like
a mini cable provider. What we're seeing
is that subscribers are leaving the pay
TV ecosystem. And since they're not
coming back, since they're going over
the top to YouTube and Netflix, the
broadcasters, the networks, everyone has
less bargaining power to demand higher
affiliate rates in the future. So,
you're seeing lower growth in the
distribution revenue line going forward.
You might even see some declines in
distribution revenue as the big Ford
networks are clawing back some of those
distribution fees that they don't
believe the local market stations truly
deserve. And you're having the ratings
declines fall even more as people are
going to the streamers and not coming
back. Another thing that I think
listeners need to keep in mind is that
the ad load, the amount of advertising
units that a company can monetize per
hour is significantly lower for
streaming video. You have a situation
where pretty much all the metrics, the
subscriber metrics, the viewer metrics,
the pricing power, everything is
weakening for the TV ecosystem. At the
same time when the cable companies are
not interested in having these fights
over subscriber fees anymore because the
cable companies want to focus on selling
internet packages and they also want to
focus increasingly on selling mobile
cellular business. They don't care about
the video product. So all these trends
are working against broadcast. And just
to be clear, over-the-top television or
streaming direct to the consumer itself,
who's demanding local programming? I
struggle to appreciate it. If I'm buying
YouTube TV, do I care that I don't have
access to my local ABC news? Is this
something that is segmented by age or
demo? Because I'm trying to understand
where the negotiating leverage sits with
the local broadcasters as opposed to the
networks themselves. If your listeners
take away only one thing from this talk
on Nextstar and the broadcast industry,
I just want to say by far the asset that
the local television stations have that
give them the most bargaining leverage
versus the cable companies is that your
local broadcast station is still by far
the overwhelming way most Americans
watch NFL games. The leverage is mostly
in the live sports on the big four
networks that for the most part the
networks in order to stem the rating
decline are actually putting more and
more sports on their broadcast package
to defend their big four networks. So
you have negotiating leverage for NFL
that they can't miss their games. You
have it for the other sports leagues to
a lesser extent. In terms of the demos
that are still watching the local news,
it's primarily an older demo that
probably shouldn't be that big a
surprise. The type of demos that watch
local station news that probably say 25
to 54 is the main demo, but skewing over
50. you have some turnover in the
generations as older TV viewers as they
die off. But we're finding is that new
younger TV viewers are not coming to the
ecosystem like they would in the past.
In the past, it was sort of a right of
passage that when you moved out of your
parents house and formed a quote unquote
household, you would join the pay TV
package, but a lot of younger viewers
are just skipping that altogether. The
average viewer of broadcast television
is definitely over 50 and probably
scooting a little bit older. They
overweight on the morning shows, the
major newscasts, and they overweight on
sports. The other bargaining point that
broadcast stations have is that they
have a bit of a bully pull pit in that
they can run these scary but effective
ads, basically lobbying their viewer
base, lobbying their subscribers. You've
probably seen them wherever you are in
this country. You've probably lived in a
market where there was a dispute between
a cable company and local market
broadcaster. And you probably saw an
advertisement that said, "Make sure you
call Comcast and tell them that you want
to see the Oscars on ABC or make sure
you call CBS and demand that you get
Monday Night Football." Those are very
powerful marketing tools and all those
are still the main areas of leverage
that local stations have. But all the
points I mentioned are getting weaker.
All those bargaining positions are
getting weaker every cycle because the
big four networks are pulling more and
more of their sports onto streaming. I
guess the only thing we didn't talk
about from an opportunity perspective
that I know anyone that's interested in
the broadcasters likes to bring up is
the spectrum opportunity on ATSC. I
think we're on 3.0 now. What is that
opportunity for them? What exactly is
it?
>> Many of the remaining bulls of the TV
broadcast industry have been very
optimistic. I think a little too much
quite frankly when it comes to this
advanced broadcasting technology known
as ATSC 3.0. The way I would describe
the technology is it's an advanced
broadcasting standard that in some ways
enhances the quality of the broadcast
and the amount of data that can be sent
along the video signal. But quite simply
over the last decade there has not been
enough development technologically from
either the content creators or quite
frankly from the viewing audience to
demand a better overthe-air signal
technology. ATSC 3.0 is often referred
to as next generation TV. The idea was
this is a special signal that can be
transmitted over the air, sort of a
ultra extra highdefinition version of
the current signal that is encrypted.
And because it's encrypted, it's able to
send and receive more data about the
household and the viewership. And the
theory was with this better signal, with
this next generation broadcasting, you
would be able to compete more for
digital ad dollars because ad buyers
want to have more information all the
time. So the idea was that broadcasters
can avoid cord cutting. They can
transmit their signal over the air. And
they could sell new services and give
more KPIs and more data to ad buyers.
They can tell ad buyers more about their
customer base using ATSC 3.0. It's been
a decade of waiting. It hasn't come to
fruition and likely it's not going to
come to fruition. I first became
familiar with this technology almost 10
years ago. I was at Univision and I was
working in the office of the CEO on
special projects and I actually helped
the auction team. I was a substitute
bidder in the spectrum auction. And back
then in the 2010s during the wave of
consolidation, a lot of broadcast
stations were selling their spectrum
because the thought was that new
technology could be better used for the
spectrum that television companies could
monetize if they did not want to
broadcast this way. I won't get into the
whole history of spectrum auctions. They
typically have underdelivered in
proceeds to the TV industry. There have
been very few winners and a lot of
disappointed parties. But 10 years ago,
there was hope that with 5G, ATSC 3.0
would help broadcast compete with
digital. And very quickly, the reason
why the technology never developed over
the last 10 years was for several
reasons, but one of the big reasons is
that the industry never fully committed
to changing the broadcast standard in
the same way they did when the industry
switched from standard definition to
high definition television. When the
broadcast industry switched to HGTV,
it was a monumental shift that the
entire industry was on board and they
had a set date when the old signal would
stop being transmitted and the new
signal would start. Well, with ATSC 3.0,
that never happened. For a decade, if
you wanted to do this versus a
broadcaster, you would have to maintain
two signals, which was expensive and not
practical. On top of that, because
broadcasters were not broadcasting in
this new format because it was
cumbersome, the different television
manufacturers who for over a decade were
trying to drive down the prices of a
flat screen television set to save
money, they weren't adding the necessary
components into their sets to receive
the encrypted signal. And then thirdly,
from a user adoption standpoint, a lot
of the tech-savvy first adopters who in
theory should have picked up ATSC 3.0 by
now, from a viewer's perspective, the
technology was lacking because when you
encrypt the TV signal, it stops you from
using it more freely in terms of DVRs.
You can't record the signal. you can't
cast it to other devices because now
every device needs to have a chip that
can read this nextG TV. It was lack of
cooperation from all the different
parties in the TV ecosystem that I think
has caused this nextg TV to be a little
more of a pipe dream. And you're going
to see it mentioned in a lot of investor
decks and a lot of bulls who need
something to justify going long this
space will point to this standard as a
potential source of future digital
revenue. But I can tell you from
experience the technology hasn't panned
out. And now that everyone's already on
to 5G and already getting all the
entertainment through their phone, I
think it's not likely ever to be a
meaningful contributor of revenue.
>> As you kind of laid out the financial
profile of the business, appreciate that
growth is somewhat muted here, but
margins are healthy, free cash flow
generation is copious, which means that
management is responsible for
redeploying that cash into the
opportunity set at hand. I know they
have a buyback and a dividend, but it
seems like they're capped from an M&A
front. How do you think about the
capital allocation policies of the
business here? And broadly, what you
should consider when evaluating a
company that is limited in its growth
prospects, but is as free cash flow
generative as the businesses like the
broadcasters are today. A lesson that
I've learned in watching the media
landscape change over the last 10 years
and especially spending a lot of time in
local television and local radio. I've
seen a lot of these companies trade like
value stocks. They have all the
characteristics value investors look for
that you just mentioned. High margins,
strong free cash flow conversion, low
maintenance capex. The issue that I had
to learn the hard way is that if you're
operating an industry that is a melting
ice cube that is clearly shrinking, it's
not enough to just do more buybacks.
It's not enough to return more capital
in order to turn the stock around.
Capital allocation, in my opinion, is
not a strategy. Capital allocation is
what you do to enhance the strategy that
you already have in place. Strategy to
me in television means what steps are
the broadcast operators doing to grow
the future earnings potential of their
business. In broadcast many of their
distribution avenues, primarily the
cable bundles are out of their control.
I can understand why some capital has
been spent in some of these digital
sites and in propping up some of these
subpar networks like the CW. I could
understand the thought process to use
the excess free cash flow to reinvest in
the business. What I would propose
today, having seen many investors lose
out, is that I believe that if you were
investing in a declining industry with
strong free cash flow, I think you need
to preserve cash and I think you need to
look to exit the business. I did a look
back on my notes 12 years ago for the
broadcast television industry. About 12
years ago in 2013 when I was still in
grad school doing my MBA at Colombia
through a blind submission I sent in a
stock pitch pitching Tribune
Broadcasting as a long to the Irishone
ideas competition and I ended up winning
it. got on stage in Lincoln Center and I
pitched my stock to the hedge fun
industry and on CNBC the next morning
and I was the biggest bull you could
find for Tribune Broadcasting. I pitched
the stock at $55 a share back in 2013.
During the short term, a couple years
later, I think the stock ran to over
$100 a share because again the 2010s
there was a long string of consolidation
M&A. But next ends up buying Tribune
almost a decade later. They actually
closed the Tribune deal in 2019. So 6
years later after I pitched Tribune at
Irisone at $55 a share, the stock had a
total return that strongly trailed S&P
500. In 2019, the last trading price of
the stock was in the high 40s. You might
have broken even if you added back a
couple special dividends along the way,
but for the most part, if you're in a
declining industry, sometimes the best
answer is to get out. Some of the best
case studies in the media industry
investors can study are the operators
that knew when to sell. One of my
favorite books that I recommend everyone
read is Curse of the Mogul by Columbia
Business School professor, but he's also
is an investment banker with Evercore,
Jonathan Knee. And he basically argues
that with few exceptions, most media
companies underperform in the equity
markets and they destroy shareholder
value too often with too many mergers.
The smartest TV operators were the ones
who sold. When Rupert Murdoch dismantled
his TV empire and sold it for a hefty
price to Disney, that was a brilliant
move. When AT&T decided that they no
longer wanted to deal with the headache
of Warner Brothers Discovery and they
jettisoned that business, guess what
stock has outperformed since then? It's
been AT&T. It hasn't been Warner
Brothers. The smart TV operators over
the last 10 years were the ones who
participated in the consolidation wave
because they were able to sell their
companies at higher multiples that they
could not get today. And where we sit
with NextStar is the problem with M&A as
a strategy is that eventually you run
out of targets to buy. I think
eventually, I don't know when, I don't
know how, we'll get some regulatory
change and next hour we'll probably be
able to buy some more stations, but you
can't just keep buying declining assets
with leverage and firing people and
hoping that's the strategy. I'm not
expecting an imminent collapse, but when
you are the biggest player, Nextar
cannot be acquired by anyone else
because they're so big. I think the best
thing that they should have done for
shareholders was to sell years ago. And
I think right now if you're a broadcast
investor, the best thing you could
probably do is find a way to sell your
assets to NextStar because they're going
to be a buyer. Just to bring it all
home, our customer question is kind of
lessons learned. You have the privilege
of being an executive in the space as
well as now an investor and consultant
as it relates to media. What is it that
you take away from this story? I think
you alluded to a handful of those points
in the prior question, but just tie a
bow on it.
>> Bring it all together, here are some key
lessons that I would take away from
working in the television radio
industry. I mentioned before that
NextStar decided to make a bargain to
substitute their advertising revenue for
more cable subscriber revenue. I like to
think of NextStar as a BOTB, a
beneficiary of the bundle. I learned in
supporting many senior executives who
are excellent at their jobs that it's
very easy to sit outside and game plan
strategy. But a lot of these businesses
because they have legacy agreements with
the cable companies, the cable carriage
deals, they're shorter now. their last
between three to five years before
they're five to seven years. There were
limits in terms of in exchange for that
high margin sticky cable subscriber
revenue. There were limits in terms of
what programming you were not allowed to
put online. There were limits in terms
of what things you could do with your
streaming service or what types of
skinny bundles or streaming bundles you
could offer to the public. There were
limits on pricing. I mentioned before
the cable companies mandated that they
have the lowest rates. The broadcast
companies couldn't innovate the way they
wanted to. They couldn't disrupt
themselves because these contractual
agreements that were giving them sort of
golden handcuffs. I would also say
another lesson learned is to understand
how much flexibility you have to operate
in the industry in which you're
currently finding yourself. I think
sometimes we probably give management a
little bit too much credit but also a
little bit too much blame. A lot of the
decisions that management implements are
dictated one from the board who you
never see what bad acquisition they push
the management team to do. You never see
or hear what good idea a management team
had that died in committee or died
before it even got off the page. But the
CEO or the management team will take the
fall for not being nimble. When I worked
with executives, I was very surprised at
how everyone in TV that I worked with,
for the most part enjoyed their
industry, that they loved the medium,
and they saw the purpose in the product
that they were selling to the consumers.
But because of all the contracts tied to
these long-term deals, your business
model is maybe 80% set in stone for the
next 3 to 5 years. So overall, I think
I've learned that you need to have a
strong understanding of the fundamental
drivers of your business. You need to
understand the competitive dynamics as
well as the different margin structures
that are put into place and don't have
much flexibility for change because 80%
of the performance of a business is
going to be driven by the underlying
fundamentals and I think management
while very important bad management can
absolutely destroy a business for the
most part management is operating with
more constraints than you might realize.
eyes. I rely less on management
forecasts when doing my estimates
because I find that they tend to be too
optimistic. And I also find that when
you're dealing with industries with high
leverage, it's just harder for them to
change because when you have four or
five or even more turns of debt, you
don't want to do anything that can
disrupt your cash flow stream. I think
that once we have some M&A deals that
are announced, you're going to have some
spin-offs because the regulatory
framework, anytime there's television
M&A, one party usually has to divest
some sort of asset. There are different
trades you can set up, but for the most
part, the industry's
course is on cruise control. And so I
have a lot more respect for industry
fundamentals having been an operator.
>> Sim, you packed in the rich history of a
complicated industry in 60 minutes. We
appreciate you jumping on and look
forward to sharing this one with our
audience.
>> Thank you very much, Zach. Thanks for
having me and look forward to connecting
with your listeners. You can find me
online at Acrude Interest. I'm on
Substack. You can also find me on
Twitter under crude interest and you can
also go to my YouTube page. I love
talking about media. I'm covering
television and cable companies during
earnings season and I'm also giving
thoughts on other digital advertising
stocks throughout the year.
>> To find more episodes of breakdowns
ranging from Costco to Visa to Madna or
to sign up for our weekly summary, check
out join colossus.com. That's j o i n o
ssus.com.
[Music]